3D Modeling and Animation II
Course: AVC285

First Term: 2023 Fall
Final Term: Current
Lec + Lab   3.0 Credit(s)   6.0 Period(s)   6.0 Load  
Subject Type: Occupational
Load Formula: T - Lab Load


Description: Advanced techniques for 3D modeling and computer animation. Creating and applying 2D background and 3D model textures, creating and applying special effects to models and animation, designing, modeling, and animating a digital 3D character from a character study.

Requisites: Prerequisites: A grade of C or better in AVC/MMT185.

Cross-References: MMT285

MCCCD Official Course Competencies
1. Select textures to be used on surfaces of backgrounds and 3D models. (I)
2. Apply material to surfaces and 3D models using various painting and mapping techniques. (I)
3. Determine illumination effects on a 3D model. (II)
4. Apply various deformation principles for animation and special effects. (II)
5. Produce a 3D character study. (III-V)
6. Use forward and inverse kinematics to animate a character. (IV)
7. Apply animation principles to objects and environments. (IV)
8. Construct a character applying appropriate tools, materials and textures. (V)
MCCCD Official Course Competencies must be coordinated with the content outline so that each major point in the outline serves one or more competencies. MCCCD faculty retains authority in determining the pedagogical approach, methodology, content sequencing, and assessment metrics for student work. Please see individual course syllabi for additional information, including specific course requirements.
 
MCCCD Official Course Outline
I. Textures
   A. Maps/mapping
      1. Texture
      2. Reflective
   B. 3D painting techniques
II. Lighting and effects
   A. Illumination and fire
   B. Deformation principles
   C. Other
III. 3D character generation
   A. Character design
   B. Principles
      1. Anatomy
      2. Motion
   C. Other
IV. Animating the character
   A. Key framing and animation
   B. Forward and inverse kinematics
   C. Other
V. Character construction
   A. Texture mapping
   B. Materials
      1. Properties
      2. Applications
   C. Special effects
   D. Other